---
layout: post
title: "The Bay Area"
date: 2018-06-06
categories: blog
permalink: /the-bay-area
---

6 June 2018

In 2017, I had the incredible opportunity to live and work in the San Francisco Bay Area, California. It was one of the most transformative personal and professional experiences of my life. Being in the Bay Area was eye-opening; I learned a lot about myself by stepping out of my comfort zone, though calling it “outside my comfort zone” seems unfair. Over the course of the year, I not only grew comfortable but also developed a deeper appreciation for what it means to be liberal, American, and perhaps, truly free. I can never forget the sign next to the shared swimming pool in the estate that I stayed: "*Usage of drugs and consumption of alcohol in the pool not encouraged*."

The Bay Area is home to some of the kindest and most open-minded people I’ve ever met. I was fortunate to have colleagues who treated interns with the same respect they gave to their fellow engineers. Horror stories from university friends with internships had me expecting the worst, but my experience was quite the opposite. At every stage, my ideas, no matter how naive, were valued alongside those of others. As a computer science student with only basic coursework under my belt, contributing to production code used by millions was daunting. When I first joined [Epic!](https://www.getepic.com), I constantly felt on edge.

Luckily, I was in great hands. My colleagues, especially the more experienced engineers, took time every day to teach me the ropes. It was clear they loved what they did and were happy to guide me. Their passion was both motivating and inspiring. At first, things were difficult. I had countless questions, but I didn’t want to bother others constantly, so I spent hours staring at the screen, trying to figure things out that might’ve taken someone else minutes. As a young intern in my first job, there was a lot I didn’t know, and this was daunting.

For me, programming has always involved a bit of a struggle—mentally and, at times, emotionally (and rarely, physically, when I felt like smashing my computer). But that struggle is part of the process. It’s tempting to immediately turn to Google or ask a colleague, but I’ve learned the value of sitting with a problem and figuring it out myself. However, it was hard to know where to draw the line. How much time should I spend struggling before asking for help? And how much of their time could I reasonably take? It was confusing, and it took a while to realize that my primary job as an intern was to learn. Adding value to the company was perhaps secondary, a by-product of my growth. I’ll always be grateful to Epic! for fostering an environment where learning was encouraged, and I hope to do the same for someone else in the future.

Of course, I didn’t want to feel like a dud for an entire year. I realized that the best way to contribute to the company was to become the best engineer I could be, in the short 1 year that I was interning with them. This meant investing in myself: asking questions, researching unfamiliar concepts, and learning through trial and error. Once I prioritized my own learning, I began to write better code and became a more valuable asset to the team.

Coming from conservative Singapore, one of the biggest culture shocks was how open and casual Americans were. It was normal to talk about a late night out or even have a cold beer in the workplace—what we called “beer-o-clock.” This relaxed attitude led to a happier, more productive work environment. Initially, it was strange for me, but I quickly appreciated how much it improved camaraderie and morale. The company’s flat structure also made everyone feel valued, and micromanagement was nowhere to be found. In contrast, I’ve often heard about how hierarchical and conservative workplaces can stifle creativity and innovation.

One of the most heartwarming things I noticed in California was the passion people had for their work. In the Bay Area, people truly love what they do. Many of my colleagues had non-traditional paths into tech. They came from diverse backgrounds like music, sociology, and even biology. This wasn’t by accident; companies here are willing to give people a chance regardless of their formal credentials, and in return, they benefit from employees who are genuinely passionate about their work. It was a stark contrast to the rigid career paths in Asia, where being a doctor, lawyer, or engineer is often seen as the only way to succeed. I hope Singapore will one day adopt a similar mindset, where passion and creativity are prioritized over credentials. Innovation flourishes when people love what they do.

California itself felt like a dream. Redwood City, where I worked, is known for having some of the best weather in the world, and I couldn’t agree more. With temperatures ranging from 8°C to 20°C year-round, the climate was perfect for outdoor activities and travel. The state is also home to diverse landscapes—beaches, mountains, deserts, and even rainforests. Iconic spots like Yosemite, Lake Tahoe, and King’s Canyon National Park were just a few hours away by car, making weekend getaways a regular part of life.

Looking back, my year in California was nothing short of amazing. I was lucky to spend a year in university interning full-time while taking classes too. I’ll definitely want to be back!
