---

defaults:
# _posts
- scope:
path: ""
type: posts
values:
layout: posts
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide

---


I had the opportunity to spend 2017 living and working in the San Francisco Bay Area, California, and it was definitely one of the greatest personal and professional experiences of my life. Being in the Bay Area was refreshing - you surely learn a great deal about yourself when you’re outside of your comfort zone (10,000 miles to be precise) - but it would be injustice to call it outside my comfort zone really. Over the year, I learnt to not only be comfortable where I was, but also grew a newfound appreciation for what it meant to be liberal, American, and be perhaps, truly free.

The Bay Area hosted some of the kindest people I met - I was blessed with colleagues who treated interns with as much respect, if not more, as they treated fellow colleagues - horror stories from university friends had me expecting much worse. Throughout the year, I always felt like all my ideas, however naive, were valued just as much as the directors’. Having barely covered the essential computer science classes to be able to contribute at a decent level to any company, let alone production code being used by over a million users, I definitely was at the tip of my toes when I first joined Epic! (www.getepic.com). 

However, I was in great hands to say the least - colleagues and more experienced engineers took a great deal of time off from their schedules daily to teach me the ways of the programmer - it was clear that they absolutely loved what they did, and also saw it as a humble duty to ensure they would pass on some of their learnings and knowledge to me. Their passion was extremely motivational and inspiring. Things were initially a little difficult for me at Epic! - I had a million questions all the time and I did not want to bug the other engineers all the time, and it meant that I sometimes spent hours staring at the screen trying to figure things out myself - and this would have taken someone with experience minutes. As a young intern in his first internship, you don’t know what you don’t know.

Furthermore, engineering to me has also always been about the struggle (mentally, sometimes emotionally, rarely physically when I want to destroy everything with a wire coming out of it), the science (and art) of programming is one that that surely requires you to go through the pains of coming up with a solution yourself - giving it a Google (or a Hey Max, how’d you do this?) too soon is akin to depriving yourself with the joy (read: pain) of coming up with a solution yourself. What made it even more confusing was understanding where to draw the line: how much of the other engineers’ time was I deserving of, where should I give up and approach them, and at what point should I give up staring for my screen and actually approach someone for help? It really was very confusing for me at the beginning. It took me a great deal of time to understand that - and I promise you I never took this privilege lightly - that my job as an intern was to learn. I was there to prioritise my own learning from the best, and adding any value to the company was a side-effect of my stint at the company. I will forever be grateful to everyone at Epic! For investing in me, teaching me what it means to have a supportive work environment, and teaching me the joy in programming. I hope I can do the same for someone else one day too! 

Of course, no one wants to be a dud for a full year, but it took me a while to realise that the best way for me to give back to the company (which really was a great priority to me) was to be the best engineer that I could be. The best way to do that was to invest in myself but asking lots of questions, spending time at work reading up on concepts and technologies I was unfamiliar with, and learning by making mistakes. I realised that in the second of my year-long internship, when I started to ask more questions and prioritise my learning more, I actually was able to empower myself to write better code for the company. 

Having come from conservative Singapore, a great culture shock for me was how open Americans were : it was completely fine to talk about a late night out or have a cold one at the work place (beer-o-clock, we called it). This, I realised, actually worked in favour of the company - happy employees = productive workplace. This initially took me a while to get used to, but was definitely a refreshing (and I would daresay, superior) experience compared to the traditional, conservative workplace. The company structure was mostly flat too, and it went a long way in making everyone feel like they were important, and wanting to do their best. Micro-management makes great slaves. 

One of the most heartwarming things that I realised being in California was that everyone I spoke to was truly passionate about what they did. You could tell that they looked forward to being at work every morning, and didn’t mind staying until they finished their self-appointed tasks of the day. Here in Asia, people are generally more conservative with their career options - You could be a doctor, lawyer, engineer, or a loser. However, in America, a surprising number of people actually follow their dreams. They study what they want in college, and are not afraid to make switches mid-career if they feel like they do not enjoy what they do. I was amazed to find out that most of the engineers in the team did not have degrees in engineering - they varied from majors in music, sociology, audio-engineering, to even biology! This was by no means a coincidence though, Americans are willing to give people without the right paper credentials a chance, and in return, are paid back by passionate employees. I hope that we can do the same in Singapore with time to come, and focus less on the paper chase. Innovation can only be kindled if people enjoy what they do. Creativity is a by-product of passion and an open mind, and not quite academic rigour. Perhaps following your dreams is perhaps the sure-st way of being happy, and sometimes risking it all to do so is a holy obligation. Many colleagues who had done just that were reaping the benefits of doing so. Being happy was a choice they consciously made, albeit through trial and error. 

Being in California had other great advantages too - Redwood City’s (where I worked) claim to fame was Climate Best by Government Test. And I couldn’t agree more - temperature was practically between 8 degrees celcius and 20 degrees celcius all year long - days were generally long with sunny afternoons. The weather was supportive to sport and travelling practically all year long. California is also home to a great deal of microclimates - within the state, you have beaches, mountains, valleys, desserts, and even a rainforest. Redwood trees, some of the tallest trees in the world, are plentiful in the Bay. You do not have to travel far to see snow or sand, and some of the most beautiful places in the world, like Yosemite, Lake Tahoe, and King’s Canyon National Park are just hours away by car from the Bay.


My year in California was nothing short of amazing - I’m fortunate to have been able to spend half of my Sophomore year and half of my Junior year abroad interning full-time and taking a couple of classes under the guidance of Stanford and Berkeley Professors. I will surely be back!
